The Pool of Issue Topics
========================

Issue 1
-------

##### The best way to teach is to praise positive actions and ignore negative ones.

### Score 6

The recommendation presents a view that I would agree is successful most
of the time, but one that I cannot fully support due to the “all or
nothing” impression it gives.

Certainly as an educator I agree fully that the best way to *elicit*
positive response from students is to make use of students’ positive
energy and then encourage actions that you would like to see repeated.
It is human nature that we all want to be accepted and achieve on some
level, and when people in authority provide feedback that we have done
something well, the drive to repeat the action that was praised is bound
to be particularly strong.

This blanket statement would obviously pay dividends in situations in
which a teacher desires to have students repeat particular behaviors.
For example, if an educator is attempting to teach students proper
classroom *etiquette*, it would be appropriate to openly praise a
student who raises his or her hand when wishing to speak or address the
class. In such cases, the teacher may also help shape positive behaviors
by ignoring a student who is trying to interject without approval from
the teacher. In fact, the decision to ignore students who are exhibiting
inappropriate behaviors of this type could work very well in this
situation, as the stakes are not very high and the intended outcome can
likely be achieved by such a method. However, it is important to note
here that this tactic would only be effective in such a “low-stakes”
situation, as when a student speaks without raising her hand first. As
we will discuss below, ignoring a student who hits another student, or
engages in more serious misbehavior, would not be effective or
*prudent*.

To expand on this point, it is important for teachers to be careful when
working with a second half of this statement, only ignoring negative
actions that are not serious. Take for instance a student who is
misbehaving just by chatting with a fellow classmate. This student might
not be presenting much of a problem and may be simply seeking attention.
Ignoring the student might, in fact, be the best solution. Now assume
the negative action is the improper administering of chemicals in a
science experiment or the bullying of a fellow student. To ignore these
negative actions would be absurd and *negligent*. Now you are allowing a
problem to persist, one that could potentially lead to much bigger and
more dangerous issues. In a more serious situation addressing the
negative actions quickly and properly could stop the problem in its
tracks. It is for reasons like this that I do not *advocate* the idea
that a teacher can be successful by simply ignoring negative actions.

I do, however, greatly support the idea that the central focus of
teaching should be to build on and encourage positive actions. However,
the author’s *encompasing* statement leaves too many negative
possibilities for the classroom. Perhaps a better way to phrase this
statement would be to say, “The best way to teach is to praise positive
actions and ignore negative ones that are not *debilitating* to class
efficiency or the safety of any individual”.

Thus, in the original statement, there are indeed some good intentions,
and there could be a lot of *merit* in adopting its basic principles.
Data proves that positive support can substantially increase motivation
and desire in students and contribute to positive achievements. In fact,
most studies of teaching efficiency indicate that praising positive
actions and ignoring negative ones can create a more stable and
efficient classroom. It needs to be stressed, however, that this tool is
only effective at certain levels of misbehavior. As mentioned above,
when a behavior is *precipitated* by feelings of revenge, power or total
self-worthlessness, this methodology will likely not work. It is likely
to be very successful, however, when the drive behind the misbehavior is
simple attention seeking. In many of these instances, if the teacher
demonstrates clearly that inappropriate behavior does not result in the
gaining of attention, students are more likely to seek attention by
behaving properly. Should the student choose this path, then the
ignoring has worked and when the positive behavior is exhibited, then
the teacher can utilize the first part of the theory and support or
praise this behavior. Now it is much more likely to be repeated. If the
student does not choose this path and instead elects to raise the
actions to a higher level that presents a more serious issue, then
ignorance alone cannot work, and other methods must be employed.

In conclusion, one can appreciate the *credo* expressed in this
instance, but surely, we all can see the potential error of following it
through to the extreme.

### Score 5

I partially agree with the statement “The best way to teach is to praise
positive actions and ignore negative ones”. Children should be rewarded
when they perform well; however, they should bot be ignored for
performing sub-optimally. For purposes of this essay, the term “actions”
is defined as behaviors within the classroom.

Utilizing positive reinforcements, such as *tangible* rewards, can be a
good method to teach children. If the teacher praises children for
actions that are desirable, then the children are more likely to repeat
those actions. For example, a student who completes an assignment on
time and does a good job is likely to want to do a good job on the next
assignment if he gets positive feedback. Likewise, the children who are
not currently engaging in the desirable actions may be more inclined to
do so in order to receive the positive reinforcement.

*Conversely*, children should not be ignored for negative actions. If a
child is not exhibiting appropriate behavior in the classroom, then it
is the teacher’s responsibility to encourage the child to perform
optimally. Ignoring something doesn’t make it go away, actions and
consequences do. A student who is being disruptive in class will
continue to be disruptive unless the teacher does something about it.
However, the teacher’s actions need to be appropriate.

Before the teacher attempts to modify a child’s behavior, the teacher
needs to try and identify the reason behind the behavior. For instance,
children who leave their seats often, stare into space, or *call out of
turn* may be initially viewed as having poor behavior. However, the
teacher may suspect that the child has an attentional problem, and
request that child be tested. If the child does not have an attentional
problem, then the teacher can work with a related service, such as
occupational therapy, to alter the classroom environment in order to
cater to the needs of the child. For instance, the teacher could remove
some of the stimulating bulletin board displays to make the room more
calming to the child. If the child becomes more attentive in class then
the teacher was able to assist the child without *scorning* them or
ignoring them. The teacher met the needs of the child and created and
environment to enable the child and created an environment to enable the
child to optimally perform in the educational setting.

On the other hand, if the child is tested and does not have any areas of
concern that may be impacting the educational performance in the
classroom, then the negative behavior may strictly be due to *defiance*.
In such a case, the teacher still should bot ignore the child, because
the negative actions may *hinder* the learning opportunity for the
remaining children in the class. As a result, a child who is being
disruptive to the learning process of the class should be set apart from
the class so that they do not receive the positive reinforcement of peer
attention.

The teacher should not ignore the student who is misbehaving, but that
does not mean that the teacher just needs to punish. It is better to
address the child privately and make sure the child is aware of the
negative actions. Once the child is aware, then the teacher should once
again try to determine the reason why the child is behaving in a
negative manner. Perhaps the child’s parents are in the middle of a
divorce and the child is outwardly expressing his frustration in the
classroom. Or the academic content of the class may not be challenging
enough for the child and so he is misbehaving out of boredom. Whatever
the reason behind the behavior, the hey factor is that the teacher works
with the child to try and identify it, Simply punishing or ignoring the
child would not solve the problem, whereas working to create a plan for
success in the classroom would. Likewise, rather than punishing and
defeating the child, the teacher is working with and *empowering* the
child; a much more positive outcome to the situation.

Issue 2
-------

##### The best way for a society to prepare its young people for leadership in government, industry, or other fields is by instilling in them a sense of cooperation, not competition.

### Score 6

Whenever people argue that history is a worthless subject or that there
is nothing to be gained by just “memorizing a bunch of stupid names and
dates,” I simply hold my tongue and smile to myself. What I’m thinking
is that, as cliche as it sounds, you do learn a great deals from history
(and woe to those who fail to learn those lessons). It is remarkable to
think of the number of circumstances and situations in which even the
most *rudimentary* knowledge of history will turn out to be invaluable.
Take, for example, the issue at hand here. IS it better for a society to
instill in future leaders a sense of competition or cooperation? Those
who have not examined leaders throughout time and across a number of
fields might not have the ability to provide a thorough and convincing
answer to this question, in spite of the fact that it is crucial to the
future functioning of our society. Looking closely at the question of
leadership and how it has worked in the past, I would have to agree that
the best way to prepare young people for leadership is to instill in
them a sense of cooperation.

Let us look first at those leaders who have defined themselves based on
their competitiveness. Although at first glance it may appear that a
leader must have a competitive edge in order to gain and then maintain a
leadership position, I will make two points on this subject. First, the
desire to compete is an inherent part of human nature; that is, it is
not something that needs to be “instilled” in young people. Is there
anyone who does not compete in some way or another every single day? You
try to do better than others in your school work or at the office, or
you try to do better than yourself in some way, to push yourself. When
societies instill competitiveness in their leaders, it only leads to
trouble. The most *blatant* example in this case is Adolf Hitler, who
took competition to the very extreme, trying to prove that his race and
his country were superior to all. We do not, however, need to look that
far to find less extreme examples (i.e., Hitler is not the extreme
example that disproves the rule). The recent economic meltdown was
caused in no large part by the leaders of American banks and financial
institutions who were obsessed with competing for the *almighty* dollar.
Tiger Woods, the ultimate competitor in recent golfing history and in
many ways a leader who brought the sport of golf to an entirely new
level, destroyed his personal life (and perhaps his career – still yet
to be determined) by his overreaching sense that he could accomplish
anything, whether winning majors or sleeping with as women as possible.
His history of competitiveness is well documented; his father pushed him
from a very early age to be the ultimate competitor. It served him well
in some respects, but it also proved to be *detrimental* and ultimately
quite destructive.

Leaders who value cooperation, on the other hand, have historically been
less *prone* to these overreaching, destructive tendencies. A good cased
in point would be Abraham Lincoln. Now, I am sure at this point you are
thinking that Lincoln, who served as President during the Civil War and
who refused to compromise with the South or allow *secession*, could not
possibly be my model of cooperation. Think, however, of the way Lincoln
structured his Cabinet. He did not want a group of “yes men” who would
agree with every word he said, but instead he picked people who were
more likely to disagree with his ideas. And he respected their input,
which allowed him to keep the government together in the North during a
very *tumultuous* period (to say the least).

My point in choosing the Lincoln example is that competitiveness and
conflict may play better to the masses and be more likely to be recorded
in the history books, but it was his cooperative nature that allowed him
to govern effectively. Imagine if the CEO of a large company were never
able to compromise and insisted that every single thing be done in
exactly her way. Very quickly she would lose the very people that a
company needs in order to survive, people with new ideas, people ready
to make great advances. Without the ability to work constructively with
those who have conflicting ideas, a leader will never be able to strike
deals, reach *consensus*, or keep an enterprise on track. Even if you
are the biggest fish in the pond, it is difficult to force your will on
others forever; eventually a bigger fish comes along (or the smaller
fish team up against you!).

In the end, it seems most critical for society to instill in young
people a sense of cooperation. In part this is true because we seem to
come by our competitive side more naturally, but cooperation is
something we struggle to learn (just think of kids on the playground).
And although competitive victory is more showy, more often than not the
real details of leadership come down to the ability ti work with other
people, to compromise and cooperate. Getting to be President of United
States or the managing director of a corporation might require you to
win some battles, but once you are there you will need diplomacy and
people-skills. Those can be difficult to learn, but if you do not have
them, you are likely to be a shot-lived leader.

### Score 5

Cooperation, the act of working as a group to achieve a collective goal,
is an important value for young children to learn. Another vital life
lesson children can learn is how to be competitive, which is a mindset
in which a person feels the need to accomplish more than another person.
Both are necessary to become well rounded individuals, but concerning
preparing for a future in government, industry or various other fields,
a sense of cooperation is much more important.

Wild not all children are overly competitive in nature, every person has
some level of competitive drive inside them. This is a natural thing and
is perfectly normal. Unfortunately, if this competitive nature is
emphasized, the child will have problems relating socially to other
children, and *subsequently*, will have issues interacting with adults
later in life. A fierce competitive drive will blind and individual,
causing them to not see situations where group effort will be more
greatly rewarded then an individual effort. Take for instance the many
teams of people working for NASA. If the people that make up these teams
were all out to prove that they were superior to others, out entire
space program would be *jeapordized*. One needs to look beyond at what
will most benefit a broad group of people. This is where a sense of
cooperation in young children is vital. Cooperation is taught at an
early age and must be emphasized throughout life to fully embrace the
concept.

In the would of sports a competitive drive is vital; unfortunately, life
is not a sports game that simply leads to a winning or losing score.
Life is far more complex than this simple idea and there is no winner or
loser *designation* to accompany it. We all have to work together to
come to a conclusion that will assist not just ourselves, but others and
future generations. In every scenario there will be individuals that
have brilliant ideas, but those ideas require other people to build
upon, perfect and implement. Take for instance Bill Gates; Bill Gates is
responsible for the Microsoft cooperation which he invented in his
garage. His competitive drive assisted in building his idea, but it was
the collaborative effort of many people that helped propel his invention
into the world known product it is today. Without the cooperation of
others, his genius invention might never have made it out of his garage.

It may be true that an individual can change the world, but only so far
as to say that an individual can construct an idea that will inevitably
change the world. Once the idea is formulated, it then takes a team of
people working collectively towards a common goal to make sure that the
brilliant, life-altering idea makes it to *furtuition*. Without the
cooperation of many, an idea could simply remain as a picture on a
drawing board. It is because of this possibility that instilling a
cooperative *demeanor* in children is much more important than
developing a competitive attitude. Competition is a natural thing that
will develop with or without encouragement but the same cannot be said
for a sense of cooperation.

Issue 3
-------

##### Some people believe that corporations have a responsibility to promote the well-being of the socities and environments in which they operate. Others believe that the only responsibility of corporations, provided they operate within the law, is to make as much money as possible.

### Score 6

It is not uncommon for some to argue that, in the world in which we
live, corporations have a responsibility to society and to the
environment in which they operate. *Proponents* of this view would argue
that major environmental catastrophes (e.g., the oil spill in the Gulf)
are key examples of the damage that can be wrought when corporations are
allowed to operate unchecked. Yet within that very statement lies a
contradiction that undermines this kind of thinking–it is necessary for
outside forces to check the behavior of corporations, because we do not
expect corporations to behave in such manner. In fact, the expectation
is simply that corporations will follow the law, and in the course of
doing so, engage in every possible tactic to their advantage in the
pursuit of more and greater profit. To expect otherwise from
corporations is to fail to understand their purpose and their very
structure.

The corporation arose as a model of business in which capital could be
raised through the contributions of stockholders: investors purchase
shares in a company, and their money is then used as the operating
capital for the company. Shareholders buy stock not because they are
hoping to better make the world a better place or because they have a
desire to improve the quality of life but because they expect to see a
return in their investment in this company. The company may itself have
generally *altruistic* goals (perhaps it is a think tank that advises
the government on how to improve relations with the Middle East, or
perhaps it is a company built around finding alternative forms of
energy), but the immediate expectation of the investor is that himself
will see dividends, or profits, from the investment he has made. This is
even more true in the case of companies that are purely profit driven
and which do not have goals that are particularly directed toward social
environment–a description that applies to the vast majority of
corporations.

Is it a bad thing to have a corporation negatively affect the
environment (and by extension, its inhabitants)? To pump noxious fumes
into the atmosphere as a by-product of its manufacturing process? Of
course, and this is why agencies such as the EPA were established and
why governments–federal, state and local–are expected to monitor such
companies. Any and all corporations should be expected to temper their
input pursuit of profit with the necessity of following those safeguards
that have been legislated as protections. But the assumption that
corporations have a inherent obligation or responsibility to go above
and beyond that to actively PROMOTE the environment and the well-being
of society is absurd.

Engaging in practices to adhere to legal expectations to protect society
and the environment is costly to corporations. If the very purpose of a
corporation is to generate profits, and the obligation to adhere to
safety expectations established by law cuts into those profits, then to
expect corporations to embrace such practices beyond what is required to
presume that they willingly engage in an inherently self-destructive
process: the unnecessary lowering of profits. This is *antithetical* to
the very concept of the corporation. Treehuggers everywhere should be
pleased that environmental protections exist, but to expect corporations
to “make the world a better place” is to embrace altruism to the point
that it becomes *delusion*.

This is not to say that we should reject efforts to hold corporations
accountable. In fact, the opposite is true–we should be *vigilant* with
the business world and maintain our expectations that corporations do
not make their profits at the EXPENSE of the well-being of society. But
that role must be fulfilled by a watchdog, not the corporation itself,
and those expectations mush be imposed UPON the corporations, not
expected FROM them.

### Score 5

In order to survive, corporations must make money. Successful
corporations try and make as much money as possible. Yet this incentive
to make money does not mean that a corporation can be *detriment* to the
society in which it operates. Corporations have a duty and a
responsibility to ensure the well being of the society in which they are
a part.

Contributing to the well being of a society is actually beneficial to a
corporation in many cases. One of these is making sure that workers are
well taken care of. Absenteeism and neglect while on duty are a big
problem for corporations, as is attracting the best workers, who
hopefully will lower the risks caused by absenteeism and neglect.

One way that corporations can attract these workers is by offering them
generous benefits. If, for example, an employer includes with enployment
a good health plan, they will be able to attract better workers than one
that does not, and that will aid the corporation greatly. Health care
plans provided by employers mean that these people have at their
disposal health coverage, which means that they have the care they need
if they get sick. This also might encourage perventive care, something
that has been shown to reduce the cost and risk of developing other
major ailments.

Another area where corporations providing support for themselves and
society is in the creation of human capital. Globolization and increased
education means that employers need a better educated workforce more
than ever. One way that employers can contribute to this is by
sponsoring worker training programs, or paying for their emplyees to
return to school. This creates a more educated workforce for employers,
as well as may increase the loyalty of employees to an employer. An
employee who received an education sponsored by an employer may be
thankful for receiving that education, and may work harder for that
employer. This creates a benefit for employers and employees.

The main reason that corporations have a duty to contribute to the well
being of society is that they are a part of the society. Even though
they have an economic desire to make a profit, corporations also should
think long term about actions they take which could hurt their company.
A good example of this is BP, after the recent oil spill in the gulf.
Their desire to make a profit meant that they did not keep up on all of
their safety regulations and standard, and the result of the then faulty
of equipment caused a massive spill. This cost them huge amounts of
money to clean up, as well as the fines they had to pay for causing
this. The biggest loss for BP however is that their brand name will be
associated in the US and abroad as the company that caused this guabt
oil spill. As that spill was happening, many people boycotted that
company, resulting in lost potential revenue. They may realize that as
they lose business to people upset by the spill, that making sure a
spill didn’t happen in the first place was cheaper.

Another reason corporations have to ensure the well-being of a society
is that by making a society better off, a company may have more
consumers. This is especially true for corporations that sell goods for
middle and upper class consumers. If a corporation tries to bring people
up and increase the overall economic well being of society, they may
find that more and more people have the ability to afford their goods.
This could generate huge new profitsd for this corporation, since their
pool of potential consumers has gone up considerably. Concentrating on
the long term here means that corporations can increase their pool of
potential consumers.

By denying responsibility to a society, a corporation is only looking as
the possible short term profits, not the potential long term ones. While
in the short term it may work for a corporation to ignore their societal
responsibility, it is adventageous in the long term for the entire
corporation to make sure society is getting better. The potential for
new markets, products, production processes and other beneficial factors
that come from promoting well being is quite large. This is something
that corporations should be ready and willing to take advantage of, and
something that society should hold them accountable for.

Issue 11
--------

##### We can usually learn much more from people whose views we share than from people whose views contradict our own. Disagreement can cause stress and inhibit learning.

### Score 6

Do we learn more from people whose ideas we share in common than from
those whose ideas contradict ours? The speaker daims so, for the reason
that disagreement can cause stress and inhibit learning. I concede that
undue discord can impede learning. Otherwise, in my view we learn far
more from discourse and debate with those whose ideas we oppose than
from people whose ideas are in accord with our own.

Admittedly, under some circumstances disagreement with others can be
counterproductive to learning. For supporting examples one need look no
further than a television set. On today’s typical television or radio
talk show, disagreement usually manifests itself in meaningless
rhetorical bouts and shouting matches, during which opponents vie to
have their own message heard, but have little interest either in finding
common ground with or in acknowledging the merits of the opponent’s
viewpoint. Understandably, neither the combatants nor the viewers learn
anything meaningful. In fact, these battles only serve to reinforce the
predispositions and biases of all concerned. The end result is that
learning is impeded.

Disagreement can also inhibit learning when two opponents disagree on
fundamental assumptions needed for meaningful discourse and debate. For
example, a student of paleontology learns little about the evolution of
an animal species under current study by debating with an individual
whose religious belief system precludes the possibility of evolution to
begin with. And, economics and finance students learn little about the
dynamics of a laissez-faire system by debating with a socialist whose
view is that a centralized power should control all economic activity.

Aside from the foregoing two provisos, however, I fundamentally disagree
with the speaker’s claim. Assuming common ground between two rational
and reasonable opponents willing to debate on intellectual merits, both
opponents stand to gain much from that debate. Indeed it is primarily
through such debate that human knowledge advances, whether at the
personal, community, or global level.

At the personal level, by listening to their parents’ rationale for
their seemingly oppressive rules and policies teenagers can learn how
certain behaviors naturally carry certain undesirable consequences. At
the same time, by listening to their teenagers concerns about autonomy
and about peer pressures parents can learn the valuable lesson that
effective parenting and control are two different things. At the
community level, through dispassionate dialogue an environmental
activist can come to understand the legitimate economic concerns of
those whose jobs depend on the continued profitable operation of a
factory. Conversely, the latter might stand to learn much about the
potential public health price to be paid by ensuring job growth and a
low unemployment rate. Finally, at the global level, two nations with
opposing political or economic interests can reach mutually beneficial
agreements by striving to understand the other’s legitimate concerns for
its national security, its political sovereignty, the stability of its
economy and currency, and so forth.

In sum, unless two opponents in a debate are each willing to play on the
same field and by the same rules, I concede that disagreement can impede
learning. Otherwise, reasoned discourse and debate between people with
opposing viewpoints is the very foundation upon which human knowledge
advances. Accordingly, on balance the speaker is fundamentally correct.

The Pool of Argument Topics
===========================

Argument 1
----------

##### The following appeared in an article written by Dr. Karp, an anthropologist.

###### Twenty years ago, Dr. Field, a noted anthropologist, visited the island of Tertia and concluded from his observations that children in Tertia were reared by an entire village rather than by their own biological parents. However, my recent interviews with children living in the group of islands that includes Tertia show that these children spend much more time talking about their biological parents than about other adults in the village. This research of mine proves that Dr. Field’s conclusion about Tertian village culture is invalid and thus that the observation-centered approach to studying cultures is invalid as well. The interview-centered method that my team of graduate students is currently using Tertia will establish a much more accurate understanding of child-rearing traditions there and in other island cultures.

### Score 6

It might seem logical, at first glance, to agree with the argument in
Dr. Karp’s article that children in Tertia actually are raised by their
biological parents (and perhaps even, by implication that an
observation-centered approach to anthropological study is not as valid
as an interview-centered one). However, in order to fully evaluate this
argument, we need to have a significant amount of additional evidence.
The argument could end up being much weaker than it seems, or it might
actually quite valid. In order to make that determination, we need to
know more then analyze what we learn.

The first piece of evidence that we would need in order to evaluate Dr.
Karp’s claims is information about whether or not Tertia and the
surrounding island group have changed significantly in the past 20
years. Dr. Field conducted his observational study 20 years ago, and it
is possible that Tertia has changed significantly since then. For
example, if we had evidence that in the intervening years Westerners had
settled on the island and they introduced a more typical Western-style
family structure, it would certainly weaken Dr. Karp’s argument. In that
case, the original study could have been accurate, and Dr. Karp’s study
could be correct, as well, though his conclusion that Dr. Field’s method
is ineffective would be seriously weakened.

Another piece of evidence that might help us evaluate this claim involve
the exact locations where Dr. Karp’s interviews took place. According to
this article, Dr. Karp and his graduate students conducted interviews of
“children living in the group of islands that includes Tertia.” If we
were to learn that they never interviews a single Tertian child, it
would significantly weaken the conclusion. It could tun out to be the
case, for example, that children on Tertia are raised *communally*,
whereas children on other islands nearby are raised by their biological
parents.

In order to fully evaluate this article, we would also need to learn
more about the interview questions that Dr. Karp’s team used. What
exactly did they ask? We don’t know, nor do we know what the children’s
responses actually were. What did they say about their biological
parents? The mere fact that they speak more frequently about their
biological parents than they do about other adults does not mean that
they are raised by their parents. It would significantly *undermine* Dr.
Karp’s argument if it turned out that the children said thing like how
much they missed their parents or how their parent had left them in a
communal environment. Without knowing WHAT the children said, it is hard
to accept Dr. Karp’s conclusion.

It is slightly more difficult to discuss the evidence we might need in
order to evaluate the more interesting claims in Dr. Karp’s article,
namely this extension of the results of his study to a conclusion that
interviewed-centered methods are *inherently* more valid than
observational-centered approaches. In order to fully evaluate this
claim, in fact, we would need to look at many more examples of
interview-based and observation-based anthropological studies and we
would also need to look into different study designs. Perhaps Dr. Field
did not conduct an effective observation study, but other observational
approaches could be effective. In order to make such *grandiose* claims,
Dr. Karp really needs a lot of additional evidence (ideally a
meta-analysis of hundred of anthropological studies).

Clearly, then, we need to have additional evidence in order to get a
more complete understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of Dr.
Karp’s article. We need to know about Tertia and the surrounding
islands, whether or not they have changed over the past 20 years. We
also need to know about study design (Dr. Karp’s and Dr. Field’s). And
we really need a lot more information if we want to extend the results
of a study about one island culture to all anthropological fieldwork.

### Score 5

There seems to be an *abundance* of evidence that, if we were to examine
it closely, might make us reconsider Dr. Karp’s argument here. If we
look first at the evidence that might weaken this argument, we can see a
lot of problems with Dr. Karp’s article. It would certainly weaken the
argument if we were to discover that Dr. Karp and his students did not
actually conduct any of their interviews on the island of Tertia itself.
Looking closely at the article, we see that Dr. Karp claims that the
island group that includes Tertia. There is no evidence that they
interviewed Tertian children. It would definitely weaken the argument if
we were to learn that they interviewed children only on islands close to
Tertia. Those islands may or may not have similar child-rearing
traditions, and geographic proximity does not guarantee *societal*
similarity.

Another piece of evidence that would weaken the argument could come
transcripts of the interviews themselves. Dr. Karp’s article makes the
claim that the children “spend much more time talking about their
biological parents than about other adults,” but he gives no indication
of what exactly they say about their biological parents. After all, the
children may be talking about how they never see their parents.

One more important piece of evidence that might *undermine* the argument
Dr. Karp is making in this article. He admits that twenty years have
passed since Dr. Field’s study was conducted, but he does not provide
evidence that proves child-rearing techniques have not changed
significantly in that time. Any number of factors could have led to a
significant shift in how children are raised. Influences form other
cultures, significant catastrophic evens, or a change in government
structures could have led to a change in family dynamics. Any evidence
of such changes would clearly undermine Dr. Karp’s argument.

If we went looking for evidence that could strengthen the argument, we
might also find something interesting. Obviously, some of the evidence
above might strengthen the argument if they were NOT as discussed above
(e.g., if there were evidence that the Tertian islands have NOT changed
since Dr. Field’s study of if there were transcripts that showed the
children spoke about how much they loved living with their biological
parents). However, if we discovered that there are numerous
interview-based studies that confirm Dr. Karp’s findings, it would go a
long way toward *bolstering* his claim about Tertian child-rearing AND
his claim about interview-centered studies being more effective. Another
piece of evidence that would strengthen Dr. Karp’s argument is
undermining Dr. Field’s original study. Maybe Dr. Field was sloppy, for
example.

Dr. Karp’s article, then, ends up looking something of an empty shell.
Depending on the evidence we find to fill it out, we may discover that
it is quite convincing, or we could determine that he is full of hot
air.

Argument 2
----------

##### The following is taken from a memo from the advertising director of the Super Screen Movie Production Company.

###### According to a recent report from our marketing department, during the past year, fewer people attended Super Screen-produced movies than in any other year. And yet the percentage of positive reviews by movie reviewer about specific Super Screen movies actually increased during the past year. Clearly, the contents of these reviews are not reaching enough of our prospective viewers. Thus, the problem lies not with the quality of our movies but with the public’s lack of awareness that movies of good quality are available. Super Screen should therefore allocate a greater share of its budget next year to reaching the public through advertising.

### Score 6

The advertising director of the Super Screen Movie production company
believes that increasing the amount of advertising the company will
increase the amount of people attending Super Screen produced movies. He
believes this because during the past year fewer people than ever before
attended Super Screen produced movies, yet the percentage of positive
reviews increased over the past year. *Ostensibly*, the extra
advertising would *tout* the good reviews written about Super Screen
movies. Before this plan is implemented , however, Super Screen needs to
address some questions about its possible *flaws*.

First of all, the company needs to ask what the actual number of people
attending its movies as compared to the movies of other production
companies is. The number of people going to movies may have been in
universal decline. If this is the case and more people are going to see
Super Screen Movies than the movies of any other production company,
advertising about how fun it is to go to the movie theater may do more
to boost Super Screen viewership than advertising promoting its own good
reviews.

Secondly, the company needs to ask what the actual original number of
positive reviews was. If Super Screen movies received 1% positive
reviews last year and this year they received 2% positive reviews,
getting the message to viewers is not going to increase Super Screen
attendence. Making better movies would be much more likely to increase
attendence rates.

Finally, Sper Screen needs to ask what the relationship is between its
viewers and the movie reviewers cited in the meno. Using a survey
distributed to its target audience, Sper Screen could determine if movie
reviews have an effect on their audience’s decision to go to see a
movie, whether movie reviewers tended to have the same taste as the
target audience. Super Screen also needs to consider how its movie
choices have affected the separate movie reviewer and audience
populations. If the studio has switched from making mega-blockbuster
action movies to more nuanced dramas, the general public may be less
willing to go see their movies even though movie critic prerfer the
dramas to the action movies.

Finally the studio must ask whether the percentage of positive reviews
is really a relevant way to measure the potential impact of move
reviews. There are dozens of movie reviewers but when deciding whether
to not to go to a movie, the general public will usually pick from among
the 10 most popular movie reviews. These are the reviews that will
impress th public if they are included in advertising. If the most
popular movie reviewers disliked Super Screen movies that a larger
number of small time film bloggers reviewed positively, Super Screen
needs to think of a new advertising strategy.

In conclusion, there are many questions Super Screen needs to answer
before using this advertising director’s plan. They need to look
carefully at actual numbers, both of viewsip and of positive reviews.
They also need to identify the relationship and their target audience
has with movie reviewers and determine how their target audience feels
about their movies. Finally they need to take a nuanced look at the
movie reviews that they use in their advertising.

### Score 5

While the advertising director clearly aims at *relitalizing* his
production company and ensuring that the public is well informed about
the movies which are available, there are several basic flaws to this
argument. There remain some questions that need answering before any
steps can be taken with regard to advertising strategies for the Super
Screen Movie Production Company.

First among these questions is this: were ticket sales of the entire
movie industry down? This is an essential question because it helps to
pinpoint the cause of th writer’s problem. If the industry as a whole is
undergoing poor revenues, then perhaps the issue is not Super Screen’s
advertising company but rather the country’s economy. In times of
economic *strife*, it is only natural that people would be less willihng
to spend money on luxuries such as movie tickets. If this is the case,
it might be better suit the production company to cut costs rather than
refunneling them to a different part of the company.

Second, the advertising director should ask himself this: what medium do
the majority of his most generous movie reviewers utilize? The writer
states that movie reviews were generally positive, but where were these
reviews located? On television, newspapers, or the Internet? It is
possible that the medium used by the most movies reviewers of Super
Screen’s movies is one that is not utilized by most of the company’s
target audiences. If Super Screen produce many family films, but most of
the good reviews are found in late night television shows, then there is
a good chance that the reviews are not going to be seen by the target
audience. If this is the case, then the company would be better off
conducting research as to what medium is most likely to reach their
audiences.

One last question would be this: what advertising is currently being
used by the Super Screen company? If the company advertises using only
one medium, such as in newspapers, perhaps the solution is not to double
the amount of newspaper space but to branch out and try other forms of
advertising. The writer fails to mention exactly how the company
currently advertises their movies, and this absence detracts from his
argument.

In conclusion, the advertising director would be better served by first
answering thse questions and evaluating the resulting answers before
pouring millions of dollars into his solution. It is possible that an
alternative solution exists, perhaps one that will not be as expensive
nor as risky.

Argument 3
----------

##### The following appeared in a memorandum from the owner of Movies Galore, a chain of video rental stores.

###### In order to reverse the recent decline in our profits, we must reduce operating expenses at Movies Galore’s ten video rental stores. Since we are famous for our special bargains, raising our rental prices is not a viable way to improve profits. Last month our store in downtown Marston significantly decreased its operating expenses by closing at 6:00 P.M. rather than 9:00 P.M. and by reducing its stock by eliminating all movies released more than five years ago. Therefore, in order to increase profits without jeopardizing our reputation for offering great movies at low prices, we recommend implementing similar changes in our other nine Movies Galore stores.

### Score 6

One question which needs to be addressed before implementing the
recommendation is whether there are not other ways to improve profits
besides cutting operating expenses. Without proof, the author decides,
first, that there are only two viable options for increasing the profits
of Movie Calore: raising rental prices, and cutting costs. He rules out
the first course, and hence claims the second option must be chosen. But
it seems there may be alternative methods of increasing profits, such as
initiating advertising campaigns or closing unprofitable Movie Galore
locations.

Even if it is granted that there are only two options for increasing
profitability–cutting costs, and raising rental prices–one might wonder
why raising rental prices is so unthinkable. The author implies that
because Movie Galore is famous for special bargains, raising the rental
prices would eliminate this competitive advantage and decrease
profitability. However, in making this conclusion, he makes several
assumptions without considering questions that need to be addressed.
First, he assumes that there is no room to raise current prices and yet
maintain lower prices than competitors. One would need to ask if prices
could be increased slightly, which keeping them cheap. Even if there is
no room for such strategy, the author assumes that Movies Galore’s
reputation for bargain pricing would evaporate if they increased their
prices slightly. Perhaps such a reputation would be widespread enough to
persist despite a slight increase in prices. And thirdly, even if the
reputation for bargains would be eliminated by an increase in prices,
the author assumes that Movies Galore cannot change course and be
successful in some other way. Perhaps it could instead become known as
the store with the friendliest employees. Perhaps it already it, and the
author is wrong to believe that a causal relationship between bargain
prices and success exists, when the real cause of Movies galore’s good
reputation is entirely independent of its prices. The author needs to
answer these questions to convince us that profits are caused by
bargains, and not by other factors that may be involved.

Another question that needs to be raised is whether or not the downtown
Marston store is truly analogous to the other nine Movies Galore stores.
The author seems to assume that because the cost-cutting measures worked
at the Marston location, it will work at the others, but this is far
from clear. Perhaps the patrons of the other Movie Galore locations
would resent such changes in the hours and stock of their local stores.
Perhaps the most important question that needs to be asked is whether
the Marston location’s changes truly increased profitability. The author
writes that the Marston store decreased operating expenses by closing
earlier and cutting its stock, but he makes no mention of increased
profitability. It is quite possible that the Marston location’s profits
decreased as a result of their cost cutting, and this is a question that
needs to be addressed. The author then jumps to the conclusion that
taking similar measures would increase profitability at other locations,
though such a connection has not even been established at the Marston
store.

Even if the cost-cutting measures increased profitability at the Marston
store last month (and a causal relationship, though presumably assumed,
is still far from evident), there is no guarantee that such measures
would continue to increase profitability over time. One would need to
ask: why not observe how the Marston location’s action affect
profitability over several months, before implementing such sweeping
changes at every store? A single month is a very short time span, and
the habits of customers may change slowly. As word gets around that the
Marston store has cut their hours and their selection, they may in fact
jeopardize their reputation for offering “great movies at low prices”.
After all, the name of the franchise is Movies Galore, and by
drastically reducing the available selection, they may alienate their
customer base. If, as mentioned above, Movies Galore is famous for more
than its great bargains–if customers prefer Movies Galore because of its
selections, as well–then such a move may drastically reduce profits over
time. It seems extremely rash to implement such a new and relatively
untried strategy at every Movies Galore location, before the effect can
be observed and interpreted.

### Score 5

Management’s prediction that declining profits could be reversed by
reducing operating hours and reducing stocks seems to be rash since
there is little evidence that proper research has been conducted. It may
be true that profits could be restored by cutting operating costs, but
management needs to ask whether making these changes would have a
negative impact on its best source of revenue.

The management states that downtown Marston store “significantly
decreased its operating expenses by closing at 6:00 p.m. rather that
9:00 p.m.” It is reasonable to think that closing at 6:00 p.m. rather
than 9:00 p.m. would decrease operating expenses, but the business is
concerned with renting movies and these may be the busiest and most
profitable hours of operation. Could it be that most people renting
movies have normal working hours and have leisure time at night and to
fill that time they turn to renting movies? If management researches its
daily rental history, it may discover that its peak rental hours are
between 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. It this is the case, the store could
lose significant cincome or even go out of business altogether. If
management wants to reverse a decline in profits by cutting hours of
operation and thereby reducing expenses, it would be adventageous to
determine through research which block of time during the day is the
least profitable and then cut those hours of operation. For instance, if
it is found that profits are lowest during the morning hours and around
noon, it would be better to close the store during those hours rather
than during the hours that bring in the greatest profits.

The management then states that operating expenses will also be cut “by
eliminating all movies released more than five years ago”. Again, more
research is needed in order to determine if this would indeed help
reverse the decline in profits that Movies Galore is experiencing. Is it
possible that the success of a movie rental business is based on its
ability to provide customers with a wide array of movie selections, both
new and old? It could be dangerous for this business to eliminate its
stock of older movies without first determining the percentages of
income that come from each product. Management should research its
history of movie rentals in order to determine if a significant
percentage of its profits come from the rental of older movies. Even if
little profit does come from older movies, it may still be unwise to
eliminate the stock of old movies. If Movies Galore maintains a variety
of movies, a person searching for a current movie may decide to rent an
older movie as well. This may be especially relevent in the case of a
new movie that is sequal to an older movie or part of a trilogy.
Reducing movie variety may also damage the reputation of the stores. The
management states that Movie Galore already has a “reputation for
offering great movies”. If movie variety is suddenly reduced, the stores
may gain a negative reputation.

Overall, the management makes a prediction that is untrustworthy and
potentially damaging. More research should be conducted to see if indeed
such changes to cut operation costs will be effective, and if not, what
should be done instead. If the proper investigation is implemented by
the management, Movie Galore store may reverse the recent decline of
profits.
